readme.adoc, before:

Socrates is a front-end CLI for creating manuscripts from asciidoc files. It uses the Asciidoctor tool-chain to create manuscript from a set of files.

== Prerequisites

Socrates requires a number of prerequisites. 

=== Ruby and gems

Socrates requires a working Ruby installation and the following gems:

* asciidoctor
* asciidoctor-pdf
* asciidoctor-bibliography
* asciidoctor-diagram

To install:

```
gem install asciidoctor asciidoctor-pdf asciidoctor-diagram asciidoctor-bibliography --pre
```

=== Fonts

Fonts are used when producing PDFs using asciidoctor-pdf. Out of the box, Socrates support three fonts:

* Noto Serif (available at https://fonts.google.com/specimen/Noto+Serif?selection.family=Noto+Serif)[Google Fonts]) is the primary font.
* M+ 1nm and M+ 1p (https://github.com/rayshan/mplus-fonts[available here]) are fallback fonts.

You are not required to use the default fonts. Fonts can be changed by editing the default-theme.yml file in the src/resources/pdf-styles folder.

=== Optional Fopub support

Socrates can also generate PDF files using the https://github.com/asciidoctor/asciidoctor-fopub[asciidoctor-fopub] tool-chain. See the asciidoctor-fopub github repository for instructions on installing the tool-chain. 

Once installed, make sure "fopub" is in your path statement so that Socrates can find the tool-chain.

== Installation

=== Binary Installation

Note: The instructions below install the 64 bit build. i386 builds are also available from the release page.

==== GNU/Linux

```
$ wget https://github.com/rpwatkins/socrates/releases/download/v0.0.1/socrates_0.0.1_linux_amd64.tar.gz
$ tar -xvzf socrates_0.0.1_linux_amd64.tar.gz
$ sudo mv socrates /usr/local/bin/socrates
```

==== MacOS

```
$ curl -OL https://github.com/rpwatkins/rpwatkins/releases/download/v0.0.1/socrates_0.0.1_darwin_amd64.tar.gz
$ tar -xvzf socrates_0.0.1_darwin_amd64.tar.gz
$ sudo mv socrates /usr/local/bin/socrates
# or if you have ~/bin folder setup in the environment PATH variable
$ mv buffalo ~/bin/socrates
```

==== Windows

Download the windows release from the Releases page, extract the socrates.exe file, and place the socrates executable somewhere on your path.

=== Source Install

```
go get -u -v github.com/rpwatkins/socrates
```

== Zotero integration

Socrates supports references and bibliography generation using https://github.com/riboseinc/asciidoctor-bibliography[asciidoctor-bibliography]. For complete instructions on using asciidoctor-bibliography, see the its github page. Asciidoctor-bibliography relies on a bibtex file (src/references.bib) to populate manuscript references and a bibliography. Many programs can generate bibtex files.

https://www.zotero.org[Zotero], an open source reference manager, has excellent support for bibtex files when the BetterBibtex add-on is enabled. One can then use Zotero to generate and update the references.bib files. Also, when using the https://github.com/retorquere/zotero-better-bibtex[BetterBibTex] add-on, the exported references.bib is updated every time a reference is added, edited, or deleted from the Zotero database.

== Visual Studio Code

Any text editor can be used to edit manuscript files. I recommend https://code.visualstudio.com[Visual Studio Code] because it has very good support for asciidoc files. VS Code with the https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=joaompinto.asciidoctor-vscode[asciidoc extension] provides live preview, syntax highlighting, and more.

Also, if you choose to use VS Code, there is a very useful https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=mblode.zotero[Zotero connector] that allows placing citations directly in the editor right from VS Code.

Commit message:

added ruby instructions to readme

readme.adoc, after:

Socrates is a front-end CLI for creating manuscripts from asciidoc files. It uses the Asciidoctor tool-chain to create manuscript from a set of files. Socrates is written in Go so it produces a single executable file with no dependencies making it especially useful yet still easy to use.

== Prerequisites

Socrates requires a number of prerequisites. 

=== Ruby and gems

Socrates requires a working Ruby installation and the following gems:

* asciidoctor
* asciidoctor-pdf
* asciidoctor-bibliography
* asciidoctor-diagram

To install Ruby, MacOS and Linux users can use their package manager.
Windows users can use the packages at https://rubyinstaller.org[RubyInstaller].
Socrates has been tested with Ruby 2.5.x.

To install the needed gems:

```
gem install asciidoctor asciidoctor-pdf asciidoctor-diagram asciidoctor-bibliography --pre
```

or use https://bundler.io[bundler] if you prefer.

=== Fonts

Fonts are used when producing PDFs using asciidoctor-pdf. Out of the box, Socrates support three fonts:

* Noto Serif (available at https://fonts.google.com/specimen/Noto+Serif?selection.family=Noto+Serif)[Google Fonts]) is the primary font.
* M+ 1nm and M+ 1p (https://github.com/rayshan/mplus-fonts[available here]) are fallback fonts.

Download the fonts and use your operating system font tool to install the fonts.

You are not required to use the default fonts. Fonts can be changed by editing the default-theme.yml file in the src/resources/pdf-styles folder.

=== Optional Fopub support

Socrates can also generate PDF files using the https://github.com/asciidoctor/asciidoctor-fopub[asciidoctor-fopub] tool-chain. See the asciidoctor-fopub github repository for instructions on installing the tool-chain. 

Once installed, make sure "fopub" is in your path statement so that Socrates can find the tool-chain.

== Installation

=== Binary Installation

Note: The instructions below install the 64 bit build. i386 builds are also available from the release page.

==== GNU/Linux

```
$ wget https://github.com/rpwatkins/socrates/releases/download/v0.0.1/socrates_0.0.1_linux_amd64.tar.gz
$ tar -xvzf socrates_0.0.1_linux_amd64.tar.gz
$ sudo mv socrates /usr/local/bin/socrates
```

==== MacOS

```
$ curl -OL https://github.com/rpwatkins/rpwatkins/releases/download/v0.0.1/socrates_0.0.1_darwin_amd64.tar.gz
$ tar -xvzf socrates_0.0.1_darwin_amd64.tar.gz
$ sudo mv socrates /usr/local/bin/socrates
# or if you have ~/bin folder setup in the environment PATH variable
$ mv buffalo ~/bin/socrates
```

==== Windows

Download the windows release from the Releases page, extract the socrates.exe file, and place the socrates executable somewhere on your path.

=== Source Install

```
go get -u -v github.com/rpwatkins/socrates
```

== Zotero integration

Socrates supports references and bibliography generation using https://github.com/riboseinc/asciidoctor-bibliography[asciidoctor-bibliography]. For complete instructions on using asciidoctor-bibliography, see the its github page. Asciidoctor-bibliography relies on a bibtex file (src/references.bib) to populate manuscript references and a bibliography. Many programs can generate bibtex files.

https://www.zotero.org[Zotero], an open source reference manager, has excellent support for bibtex files when the BetterBibtex add-on is enabled. One can then use Zotero to generate and update the references.bib files. Also, when using the https://github.com/retorquere/zotero-better-bibtex[BetterBibTex] add-on, the exported references.bib is updated every time a reference is added, edited, or deleted from the Zotero database.

== Visual Studio Code

Any text editor can be used to edit manuscript files. I recommend https://code.visualstudio.com[Visual Studio Code] because it has very good support for asciidoc files. VS Code with the https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=joaompinto.asciidoctor-vscode[asciidoc extension] provides live preview, syntax highlighting, and more.

Also, if you choose to use VS Code, there is a very useful https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=mblode.zotero[Zotero connector] that allows placing citations directly in the editor right from VS Code.
